As a software engineer, chances
are you've crossed paths with
Mongo DB. At some point,
whether you're building an app
for millions of users, or
just figuring out your side
hustle, it's the most popular
non-relational database. Mongo DB is
intuitive and incredibly easy for
development teams to use. Now
with Mongo DB Atlas, you
can take advantage of Mongo.
DB is flexible document data
model as a fully automated
cloud service. Mongo DB Atlas
handled all the costly database
operations and admin tasks that
you'd rather not spend time
on like security, high availability,
data recovery monitoring, and elastic
scaling. Try Mongo DB Atlas
for free today. Visit www.mongodb.com/cloud.
To learn more. That's Mongo
db.com/cloud. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with Tiffany Ashley Bell, the founder
and executive director of the
human utility. It's a platform
to bring people together from
around the world, help people
in Detroit and Baltimore with
their water bills. And you've
helped a thousand families now.
Yes, that's. That's correct. That's
amazing. And what does this
mean? You're a Y Combinator
backed, not for profit. I
thought Y Combinator wanted to
make the next Facebook billionaire
and, but you're a nonprofit,
right? I mean, they, they
want to, but they also
recognize that there's an opportunity
to use some of the
learnings that they've had from
for-profits like, you know, Dropbox
and Airbnb and others that
they can use to like
help nonprofits basically, especially like
having like a metrics based
way of operating and that
kind of thing. And you
went to, you went to
Howard and computer science and
you worked in Ruby and
rails and iOS, and I
bumped into you online a
long time ago, you know,
just coding and doing stuff
and moving your way around
the world. But then you
were, what's called a code
for America fellow. What does
that mean? And how did
you go from, you're both
a programmer, but you're also
kind of politically involved. Yeah.
I mean, so code for
America is an organization that,
again, like it's funny, a
lot of things that I've
done over the last probably
going on 10 years now
have happened a lot because
of Twitter. And so I
ran another startup before code
for American before the human
utility called pencil UN read
it online appointment scheduling, but
that didn't do so well.
So at a certain point
that needed to be shut
down. And I was looking
for something else to do
basically, and code for America,
literally follow me on Twitter.
And it was kinda like,
Oh, you know, this is
kind of interesting. It's a
year long fellowship basically, or
at least the way it
was structured previously they've changed
their programs at this point.
But the way it was
structured when I was there
in 2014, they took teams
of three technologists. So each
team was composed. I'm a
designer, I'm a developer and
a person who did user
interface And user experience research.
And they put these this
team into, at the time,
10 different cities in the
United States. And I think there
may have been an international
team, but 10 different cities
in the United States, at least.
And your goal was to
go into the city and
help people in city, government
discovers some problem or some
problems that you could use
technology to help citizens with.
So I was with team
Atlanta and our team ended
up working on a couple
of things or a few
things. One was improving the
situation around what happens when
you get a ticket in
Atlanta for something, because the
way that it used to
work was that in Atlanta,
at least it still works
that way probably, but anytime
you get a ticket in
Atlanta, you have to go
to court to deal with
that matter. So if you
had like a broken tail
light that you got a
ticket for, you had to
go to court for that,
but people were missing their
court dates because you didn't
get your court date assignment
the same day that you
got the ticket. It would
come up some other time.
And they literally had like
city council members who had
been arrested because they had
not shown up in court,
basically over small things or
whatnot, Because they never knew
when to get in. Right?
Like they would tell you,
but it wouldn't be consistent.
You'd have to go to
some website or something or
call and figure out when,
so the team built something
that would text you when
your court date was supposed
to be. Another thing we
worked on was like designing
a new website for the
procurement department because, you know,
the city of Atlanta is,
is really popular city to
do business with, but they
didn't have a good way
of like publishing opportunities and
like giving you a sense
of what they've also offered
in the past those things
to do business with them
through. So we built a
new website for that kind
of thing or whatnot, and
that's pretty much what all
the teams did. They all
went into different cities and
picked out different problems that
needed, or could be helped
by some kind of like
really quick cleverly implemented technology
solution to help citizens out.
Just need to think about
how, of course we all
want to use technology to
improve lives, to help people.
But when you start poking
around in local government, you
know, small scale things, some,
you know, with all due
respect to all of our
hardworking people in government and
local government, the solutions that
they have and the technology
they have, and the gaps
can be filled by pretty
straightforward bits of workflow, not,
not rocket science, we don't
need machine learning to make
it easier for someone to
find out, you know, when
to come and pay their,
their parking. Exactly. You don't,
you mean you you're totally
right. But I think one
thing that I saw during
that stint and partially before
too, cause I'm previous experience
working with a federal government
contractor, there are a lot
of people in government period
who know how to buy
and look for solutions. Like,
you know, what people like
listening to this podcast and
you, and I would know
how to find. So you
get these situations where cities
have these multimillion dollar contracts
to really large corporations that
make databases when they could
be using probably something a
lot simpler and a lot
of different places because some
sales person came in convinced
a person who didn't know
how to buy these things,
or didn't know that they
can just go somewhere and
perhaps, you know, download something
and still get support. Because
I think a lot of
people, they want a phone
number to call. So they're
used to like these big
enterprise companies coming in and
offering all that sort of
stuff at great expense, but
they don't realize that it
doesn't take all these heavy
solutions to do simple things
for citizens. And that, that
lack of knowhow isn't there
in a lot of situations.
I mean, and that's what
I was seeing in Atlanta.
That's what I was seeing.
You know, the work that
we do with other different
cities now with the water
project or whatnot, that expertise
just isn't there. And so
you get people kind of
being taken advantage of, and
that's that trickles down to
what citizens experience, The idea
that they might be taken
for a ride when it's
something that's straightforward or open
source or readily available could
solve the problem. But then
they have to, you know,
deal with not just the
technology issues, but the speed
of government, as well as
procurement and things like that.
It can really hamstring people.
Exactly. And I think also
one thing that I saw
in Atlanta, not to, not
to bad mouth them, but
just like people don't want
to get in trouble for
the things that they buy.
Like what's the old saying,
like you never get fired
or whatever for buying IBM,
it's that kind of sort
of thinking, because everything that
you do is public. And
so people scrutinize every decision
that you make and people
don't want to get caught
out, having paid for something
that didn't work, you know,
you've used, you know, 30
K in taxpayer dollars to
pay for something that you
didn't even need. So people
go what's safe, but that
also translates to being expensive
in a lot of cases.
So it's that kind of
situation. So you spent that
time at code for America,
you're solving problems at a
small scale, but then how
did you come upon the
problem around running water in
Detroit and determined that it
was, it was on you
and your cohorts to, Yeah,
I mean, so the situation
with the water was just
literally something I read about
on Twitter. Like I, at
that time and I still
do this, like every morning
when I wake up, I
spend at least an hour
scrolling through Twitter, just reading
what people are talking about,
news postings and stuff and
whatnot. And actually I don't
do it as much since
our political situation has changed.
And it's kind of depressing
the kinds of things that
you see nowadays. But back
then I saw an article
in the Atlantic that talked
about how a hundred thousand
people in Detroit were about
to have to live without
running water, most of them,
because they couldn't afford the
water bills. And I thought
that was crazy because I'm
thinking to myself, like, I'm,
I'm literally in the middle
of my code for America
fellowship at that time. And
I was just thinking to
myself, like, okay, I have
been privy to a lot
of how city hall Atlanta
works. Like we got to
walk around with the mayor
and different stuff and whatnot.
So you see all these
decisions being made and how
people are thinking. So it
made me kind of wonder
when I saw that story
where they're literally turning off
the water or people like
I've been to people's houses,
they don't have anything. So
they're not taking the money
and going shopping. They just
literally don't have it. But
it's like, what kind of
decisions in city hall had
to be made where you
determine that, you know, yes,
we have this woman who
she's only living on social
security, 700 bucks a month.
We don't care. We're still
going to turn it water
off because she owes the
city money for the past
three months because of her
water bill. And it just
made me kind of wonder,
and I thought it was
bad. I thought it was
really, really, and I'm being
polite by saying bad. I
thought it was really crappy
that that was going on.
And so I tweeted about
just seeing that. And I
just asked, you know, does
anybody know anybody who's living
in this sort of situation?
And it turned into, you
know, my co founder, Kristy
Tillman, we talked about like,
you know, what can we
do to impact this sort
of situation? And our thing
was you could go to
San Francisco in San Francisco
and spend a hundred dollars
on a bad restaurant in
a weekend. So why not
take that money and like
find people who needed help
with their water bills. And
so in the meantime, like
I was poking around in
the water company site in
Detroit, and I found this
400 page PDF that had
a listing of all of
their customers, who they could
not deliver their water bills
to via the mail. So
for some reason they threw
all their information in a
PDF and post it to
the site. It's the only
thing, only thing that was
missing was names in an
AR and for our purposes
stories. And so we, you
know, on Heroku through GitHub
and just using Google docs
and Google sheets and bootstrap
taped together a website and
threw that up in a
few hours that afternoon to
find the people who needed
help with their water bills
and get their stories. Because
again, that PDF had hundreds
of people, but we didn't
know what the stories were,
but we, you know, put
that website up and we
kind of just waited. We
put the website up on
a Thursday and we spent
that whole weekend like wondering,
okay, we've done this thing.
Where are the people? But
in the meantime, we were
tweeting about what we were
doing. So it was turning
into this thing where people
were writing us saying, Hey,
you know, we want to
give to this effort, if
you find people who need
the help. And so it
turned into us having the,
like, you know, the whole
lean startup thing, having to
quickly repurpose based off what
our, what users are doing,
retooling, the website to accommodate
donors, and then putting a
link somewhere else saying that
if you need help with
your bill, go here. And
so that was a Google
form. That was just a
really quick application that we
use to find people. And
so someone made a posting
on Facebook and that Monday
morning we woke up to
like 40 people who had
applied for help. And it's
been going ever since. And
these are folks who are
maybe on disability, they might
get like one person who
was written up in national
geographic and an article about
the human utility, which was
originally named the Detroit water
project, had a $672 check.
That was her monthly check,
but her rent was $600.
So she had $72 left
at the end of the
month. And slowly, slowly, slowly,
a little bit at a
time, got a $500 overdue
water bill. So they came
to her house and they
turned off the water. And
this happened to tens of
thousands of people in Detroit,
because they've got about $90 million
in bad debt and shut
offs were being called in
for anyone who owed $150
or more. And it seems
like for some people that's
a crushingly, huge amount of
money. And for other people,
like you said, it's a
bad meal for four in
the Bay. Yeah, exactly. I
mean, people are, you know,
as developers, we're used to
fairly healthy salaries depending on
where you work and what
you do, but there are
people that, you know, that's
their monthly salary, 700 bucks
from social security. That's supposed
to pay for rent, food,
transportation, clothing, you know, hygiene,
all of your basic necessities,
including water and electricity bills.
And that mathematically just doesn't
add up for a lot
of people. So they're doing
things like literally, I wouldn't
say literally, but like robbing
Peter to pay Paul where,
you know, one of the
stories I think about from
when we first started was
a woman who I think
her name was Marnie and
she was, she had three
kids and she was skimping
on her heart medication to
stretch out, you know, her
doses. I think she was
cutting her pills in half
or something because she was
trying to stretch out that
to be able to have
the money, to pay her
water bills. And that's people
all, you know, all over
this country, actually, it's not
just a problem in Detroit.
And Baltimore is kind of
one of these like low
key, not well talked about
problems that people are having
where basic water service is
not affordable. And again, people
are doing some of the
worst things imaginable to get
by. So you have literally,
you know, Detroit's one of,
you know, historically the United States,
one of the greatest cities
in this country because of
its contributions and just the
people and people in general,
but you have people living
there who are in houses
that, you know, they're nice
houses by all accounts. They've
got infrastructure to do, you
know, run water and whatnot.
But again, they don't have
water. And I've talked to
people who have been living
in their house, like I
said, with pipes and everything
else for over a year
with no water. And they
still they've been doing things
like using the bathroom in
their backyards, you know, dig
a hole like they're in
some developing country or something.
And this is the United States,
I suppose it wealthiest country
in the world. And this
is what people are doing.
And so again, our work
is to use crowdfunding, to
round up the dollars that
people need to be able
to go into the water
company and restore dignity to
themselves in a very basic
sense. Like if you've got
the infrastructure, you should not
be using the bathroom in
your backyard. You should not
be doing things like, I
mean, we had a dialysis
patient who was trying to
do things with her neighbor's
water hose. And obviously that
was not helping some people,
they're walking several blocks to
relatives, houses in Detroit to
take showers every day, other
folks buying cases of water
and whatnot. And so I'll
also, I'll say this, a
lot of people know about
the situation in Flint with
just the water being undrinkable,
but the situation Detroit's kind
of related because you know,
Flint originally the deal was
to get the water from
Detroit, but Detroit was kind
of expensive price tag wise.
And so they tried to
find another source and that
source was polluted. So all
this other stuff happened and
whatnot, but again, like Flint,
you can't drink the water
Detroit, you can drink it,
but it's expensive. And you
know, it's just a total
terrible situation. Even though the
all that fresh water is
right there in Michigan, it's
pretty crazy, Right. It's come
all the way up to
their, their, their sidewalk. And
it just can't make it
the last, you know, 30
yards because they haven't paid
a bill. And when you're
living at that level, when
you're living on effectively on
the margins financially, it can
be one month where you
just had a lousy month,
you hurt yourself, you twisted
your ankle or whatever. And
then suddenly you don't pay
that bill. And then, you
know, you hit a couple
of more months of bad
luck. Are you intending to
pay their water bill forever?
Or are you intending to
smooth that, that bump, that
life hiccup that caused them
to not be able to
pay their, their water bill?
So, no, the intention is
not for most people to
pay their water bills forever.
We make it pretty clear
that like you get assistance
once every 18 months, unless
there's some really extenuating circumstances
that make it where we
have to continue to help
you. Like one of our
funders is GitHub and they
did a video with us
back in the fall. We
went and talked to an
87 year old woman named
Helen. And she, you know,
she's 87. She's not exactly
frail, but she's 87. Like
I wouldn't, I, I don't
want to seem terrible people
aren't hiring 87 year olds.
And so she would have
difficulty doing something to support
herself. I want to ask
for her to be a
Walmart greeter or whatever. She's
87. Exactly. And so like,
we, you know, we continue
to check in on her
and we pay her bill,
you know, every once in
a while, if her family
can't pitch in or whatnot,
but you know, that's, that's
a rare situation. Cause it's
not supposed to be that.
We're like, it's like some
people like to say promoting
dependency is just a one
time situation. Cause most people,
like you said, you know,
you break your ankle. Some
crazy health situation comes along.
Like, you know, some people
like, you know, Oh, I
had to bury my mother
and that kind of thing
or whatnot, and she didn't
have insurance. So it drained
me, you know, and that
kind of thing or other
situations too, it's not just
like unfortunate situations in that
regard. Like we have a
lot of people who work
and maybe their hours have
been cut or, you know,
they've been laid off because
they had something to do
with whatever remaining manufacturing is
in Detroit. And those people
downsize again. Yeah. It just
takes their moment. It takes
a hiccup. And then you're
like a big thank you
to our sponsors because they
make the show possible. And
I hope that you support
them the way they support
us progress. Software is the
creator of the most comprehensive
developer toolkit for building modern
apps on the market. Today
Tellerik dev craft with more
than 1100 tellerik.net and Kendo,
UI JavaScript components and controls.
You can easily build modern
high-performance web mobile and desktop
apps as well as chatbots.
The tool set also includes
reporting solutions, automated testing and
productivity tools and come to
the range of support options.
New this year is a
free online training program for
all license holders, with this
alongside thousands of demos and
source code available, comprehensive documentation
and a full assortment of
visual studio templates, you'll be
up and running with the
progress Tellerik and Kendo UI
controls in no time, download
a free 30 day trial
today at tellerik.com/hanselman that's T
E L E R I
k.com/hanselman. Now that you've changed
the name from the Detroit
water project, which people can
go and search and find
all kinds of great articles,
four and five years ago
about the project. Now you're
calling it, the human utility
is the intention to stay
focused on water or other
delinquent bills for things that
we were considered to be
fundamental to a developed country
like electricity. No. So the
focus is staying on water
at this point because it's
in the United States. At least
it's the only utility that
isn't protected in a federal
sentence. Like, so for example,
the census does a survey
every year. I think it's
called the American community survey
where they ask families of
different socioeconomic backgrounds. Like have
they been able to do
things like pay bills and
how do you get your
kids to school and that
kind of thing or whatever.
But they ask about, you
know, your ability to pay
certain utilities and they break
it out by gas and
electric. I think those two
are separate and then there's
phone bills and there's one
other one, but water isn't
explicitly included as a thing
that they ask you about
affording. So the reason why,
you know, that's one of
the things I want to
talk about changing at some
point is because if you're
not measuring it, you're not
fixing it. And when it
comes to that kind of
information in a federal sense,
that's federal money. That's not
getting appropriated for that purpose.
So that's the thing that
that's not being solved basically.
So, you know, it's issues
like that, but we want
to focus on water, but
you get game because everything
else there's programs for it.
And well actually I'll go
back and I'll say this
like water is protected if
it's tied to heating, but
if it's not tied to
heating, then you know, you're
on your own basically. So
I think water needs its
own sort of advocacy. I
noticed also when I visit
the site, the human utility
and I say, I want
to help, or I want
to get involved or I
can say give monthly, in
some places I see that
you use technologies like air
table or your, or like
Stripe when you're building a
site like this, did you
think to yourself, I'm going
to go and use things
like air table or Google
sheets. Like you said, you
started out early on. I
see a tweet here. In
fact, I'll put it in
the show notes from 2014,
when you were just trying
to figure out how to
make this thing, how much
were you thinking, you know,
I'm going to do this
entirely custom code and write
it from scratch and rails
versus, you know, there's no
reason for the human utility
to build a big giant
infrastructure when we've got all
these other great software as
a service solutions out there.
Right? I mean, so part
of that at the beginning,
it leaves was just, this
was never supposed to be
like an actual longterm thing.
We were just putting something
up in a weekend and
if it worked out great
and if not, okay, we
can just leave all this
stuff hanging. But, you know,
as we kept seeing people
giving and applying for help,
we needed to continue to
build things. So especially upon
getting accepted to Y Combinator,
I ended up, you know,
taking my rails development skills
and building out more of
the crowd funding platform. So
that's where, you know, Stripe
comes in, we're hosted on
Amazon.  what else is
in there? We have Twilio
that we use for notifying
people once they get accepted.
And as far as getting
help, what else is there?
There's MailChimp that, you know,
handles things like a donor
communications and whatnot. So some
of this also building custom
stuff just came from how
we used to work. Like
we used to do like
a, a direct match as
far as how the money
worked. So the system would
like is still does this
in some ways, but like
not the way it used
to, it was, it would
match people, you know, in
terms of like, Hey, you
gave $5. Here's the person
that should go to and
whatnot. So now it's more
of a pool of funds
basically, but the way it
used to work, it was
an explicit match. And so
that, wasn't something that you
could buy basically. So we
built that, you know, on
our own. And so that
was just in there and
that's like a, a Relic.
And plus also like, you
know, go fund me there.
There's nothing wrong with them
as a platform, despite the
fact that they've turned into
a healthcare platform really. But
like there were a bunch
of other scattered sort of
crowdfunding efforts for water bills,
but there was nothing that
had a critical mass of
support behind it. Plus also
you had the kind of
at that time, wait till
your campaign got to a
certain size to withdraw the
money. And when people come
to us, like they need
the money ASAP basically. So
we're able to, you know,
collect donations through Stripe. We
pay out bills pretty much
every single day. And you
know, that works better for
us basically. And also it
allows us again to like
manage our own sort of
donor communications systems and that
kind of thing. And then
also we built our own
case management system. Cause that's
another thing that you could
buy off the shelf, but
everything that was seeing was
just like aggressively bad. So
like we have our own
case management system aggressively bad.
Yeah. I mean, I have
a thing about like ugly
software and it was all
ugly. So it was just,
we both do our own
thing that again sits on
top of VC too. We've
got elastic search behind it.
So there's all these like
different engineering technologies that are
in there that, you know,
we use to roll into
this thing that helps people
Well. So I see a
lot, there's a lot of
people on the internet though,
that are looking for a
buck, how do you make
sure that someone doesn't abuse
your platform and make sure
that they do send people
out to confirm that they're
who they are? How do
you make sure they're not
using this for inappropriate use?
Yeah. So there's a couple
of different checks that we
run. So one is that
when you apply, you have
to submit your pay stubs
to us. If you have
some kind of income or
like your social security letters
and that kind of thing,
you also have to send
us your picture ID. So,
and you do that. Well,
I will say this, your
picture ID and your also
your lease or your deed
for your property and your
lease. We look for things
like, are you actually responsible
for the utility bill? Cause
a lot of cases like
some people, their landlord was
supposed to pay the bills.
So that's not, that's not
a situation that we handle,
but we ask people to
submit that information and they
do that by texting it
to us through Twilio or
they can fax it and
we receive it through hello
fax and it, you know,
gets in our system that
way or whatnot. But again,
like in building our own
case management system, that is
all custom through Twilio where
we can text your photo
ID, it shows up on
your profile, cause it's matched
by the phone number that
you give on your application
and whatnot. But then we
use all that and we
have a liaison, the water
department that we confer with
and we, you know, say,
you know, what's this person's
history with you all, you
know, what do they actually,
Oh, have they told the
truth in terms of them
being shut off and that
kind of thing. And if
anything seems fishy, we either
won't help or we'll delay
helping until we get more
information about each case basically.
And we have a pretty
thorough process for checking on
people that, you know, we've
had some people get through
in the past, but that's
because we didn't have as
thorough of a vetting process.
Hmm. I like the idea
that you have, I was
impressed that you just said
you have a liaison at
the fire department. So you've
made a big enough move
here that they know you.
And now when you call
the water, the water department
knows it's y'all and can
work with you. So then
the process then extends out
to the, the municipal organization.
Yeah, exactly. And that's, so
we work with at least
15 or 16 different cities,
most of those in Michigan,
but we have a liaison,
all of them or not
all of them, but like
for most of them were,
if we have a problem,
you know, and we need
some information about a case,
you know, our customer service
person can just email them
or call them even, and
just say, Hey, I need
this information. Can you send
it to me? And that
also like makes things quicker
as far as helping people.
Cause there's no point in
like having all this like
software that we built and
this whole like sort of
much streamlined, somewhat streamlined process
for helping people, if people
become the stumbling block in
the process. And so we
did the whole liaison thing
cause I used to have
to call Detroit and sit
on the customer service line
for 45 minutes at a
time. And you know, even
though we were paying a
thousand dollars worth of bills
at a time when we
did that, but you know,
there was no person to
call at that time, but
I was wasting a lot
of time doing that. So
I, you know, got on
the horn and found some
people actually through code for
America. I got linked to
the city of Detroit CIO
and she referred me to
some people in the water
department that became champions for
us and got us that
person to work with or
whatnot. So That's really cool
because like you say, you
write all this custom software,
you're going, you're trying to
automate what you're trying to
scale a system. And it
certainly, then it hits a
remote procedure call that takes
45 minutes, which is Tiffany
gets on the phone. Why
did I write all this
software? And now I have
to stand on it, sit
on hold. Exactly. And so
that's not a thing anymore,
fortunately. Great. And do you're
paying the water company, like
to be clear people aren't
like rolling into your offices
and they don't get a
check, you literally pay their
bills. So the bill goes
away for their, their issue
or their problem as opposed
to you paying a check
personally to them. Right. Right.
And so the way it's
designed, so we we've had
an interesting sort of situation
as far as being how
some of our banking is
set up. But the way
our system is actually designed
by using something called sinaps
pay, we were able to
just like write software again,
that if I press a
button, I can wire money
to Detroit or wire money
to Baltimore. But you know,
most of the time, like
we don't engage that it
just ends up being like
a credit card payment or
something. Cause that's more like
for chunking bits of money.
And then there's telling them
like, Hey, wire's coming through
for $10,000 for these people,
but again, Oh, so you
can send it in a
batch and say here's the
batch. And then they can
do the accounting as opposed
to little amounts here and
there. Yeah, Exactly, exactly. And
so that ends up painting
like more efficient, but we
also just, you know, if
someone comes to us, they've
got all the information together
and the case is pretty
easy. We can just pay
it on the fly with
a credit card for them.
Yeah. And it's really interesting
to read this story. As
you can go up to
the website and check this
out. Some of the stories
are really interesting because you
might be listening and you
might be saying as a,
as a listener of the
podcast, like, well, you know,
people shouldn't get in these
situations or how did this
even happen? Why don't you
just pay your bill? Or
you have a really interesting
story here where a gentleman
was mailed and out standing
water bill. He had thought
when he rented the house,
as we've all seen before,
I've rented houses where the
water in the sewage and
the utilities were included. It
turns out everything was included
except water. And he didn't
find out that the water
wasn't included until the water
got shut off. And you
know, I've had that happen
where I thought the cable
was included in suddenly the
cable shuts off and it
wasn't the water, but it
can totally happen. And then
You're on, you're retired, you're
going to be on disability.
This gentleman had cancer and
that you just can't spend
these can't spare the 250
bucks to pay your water
bill. Exactly. And that happens
every day that people, yeah.
And then when you, when
you fix that, that hiccup,
then those monthly manageable bills
go down to maybe a
range of $40 that someone
potentially can, can manage. And
it all started with you
on Twitter, apparently saying, this
is a problem. There must
be a way to solve
this with software. Yeah, exactly.
I mean, it's, you know,
we started off with like
a sign of a really
dinky, ugly website. It was
taped together with, I mean,
even the donor form to
say how much you were
going to give was literally
just a Pais designed with
bootstrap that was connected to
a Google spreadsheet. And so
we just like hacked the
variables, whatever the form variables
to send it to the
spreadsheet. And that, that was
our database originally because we
didn't have time. Like me
and Christie had entirely different
jobs. We didn't have time
to like, you know, do
all this infrastructure. At first.
We didn't even collect money
from people originally. We just
would give you instructions on
how to pay and you
would send us the confirmation
number. And we would send
that to the person that
got the help. So it
was designed to just be
like a thing that if
it worked great, but if
it didn't, you know, we
could just, everything would just
go away and forget about
it. So what's so impressive
is that you saw a
problem. You solve the problem.
You were doing a whole
other job, a whole other
life and fast forward five
years later, you're still doing
it. The human utility is
grown, has hired. There's multiple
people working with you and
you use software to make
people's lives better. And I
really appreciate that. Thank you.
Thank you. I didn't think
I'd be doing this five
years later, but you know,
it's a problem. That's ongoing.
Many millions of people have
problems affording their water bills
and utility bills in general
in the United States. And it's
the thing that needs to
keep going as long as
we can help with folks.
So when people can follow
you@twitterdotcomslashtiffanywithaneyeandtheycancheckoutthehumanutilityathumanutility.org. Thank you so much.
Tiffany Ashley Bell for chatting with me
today. Thank you for having
me. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.